--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# BOOST

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# HDF5

Copyright Notice and License Terms for 
HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities
Copyright 2006-2013 by The HDF Group.

NCSA HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities
Copyright 1998-2006 by the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted for any purpose (including commercial purposes) 
provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
   this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
   this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
   and/or materials provided with the distribution.

3. In addition, redistributions of modified forms of the source or binary 
   code must carry prominent notices stating that the original code was 
   changed and the date of the change.

4. All publications or advertising materials mentioning features or use of 
   this software are asked, but not required, to acknowledge that it was 
   developed by The HDF Group and by the National Center for Supercomputing 
   Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and 
   credit the contributors.

5. Neither the name of The HDF Group, the name of the University, nor the 
   name of any Contributor may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
   from this software without specific prior written permission from 
   The HDF Group, the University, or the Contributor, respectively.

DISCLAIMER: 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE HDF GROUP AND THE CONTRIBUTORS 
"AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.  In no 
event shall The HDF Group or the Contributors be liable for any damages 
suffered by the users arising out of the use of this software, even if 
advised of the possibility of such damage. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contributors:   National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) at 
the University of Illinois, Fortner Software, Unidata Program Center (netCDF), 
The Independent JPEG Group (JPEG), Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler (gzip), 
and Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Portions of HDF5 were developed with support from the Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory (LBNL) and the United States Department of Energy 
under Prime Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Portions of HDF5 were developed with support from the University of 
California, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (UC LLNL).  
The following statement applies to those portions of the product and must 
be retained in any redistribution of source code, binaries, documentation, 
and/or accompanying materials:

   This work was partially produced at the University of California, 
   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (UC LLNL) under contract 
   no. W-7405-ENG-48 (Contract 48) between the U.S. Department of Energy 
   (DOE) and The Regents of the University of California (University) 
   for the operation of UC LLNL.

   DISCLAIMER: 
   This work was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of 
   the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor 
   the University of California nor any of their employees, makes any 
   warranty, express or implied, or assumes any liability or responsibility 
   for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, 
   apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use 
   would not infringe privately- owned rights. Reference herein to any 
   specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, 
   trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute 
   or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United 
   States Government or the University of California. The views and 
   opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect 
   those of the United States Government or the University of California, 
   and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# EMPHF

Copyright 2013 Giuseppe Ottaviano <giuott@gmail.com>

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

    